---
layout: default
title: What is Design? Why is it Important?
---
#Lesson 1: What is Design? Why is it Important?

This was the first blog HackDesign lesson I am tasked to write about. Something the lesson preview page emphasizes is to take a **holistic approach** to design, which would be observing how all of the page elements "work" together. This brings me to defining a vocabulary term **harmony**, which to me means the web equivalent of the beginning of the Lion King. But instead of gazelles and voodoo baboons christening baby lions, you take in the emotion that all of the visual elements invoke. This means the color, placement, the whole shebang.

###Startups, this is how Design Works

This first article is a design primer, with emphasis on product design. The article starts of on asking the question: "What is good design?". From what I learned from reading what followed, *design is problem solving*. I remember reading from a reddit post that a design that does not solve a problem is not design, but in fact art. The following paragraph goes on to summarize that often the best designs are ones that are *invisible*.  A really important thing that the article also stresses is that good design takes into consideration the user's needs, and is more complex than a wireframe or Photoshop mockup.

The next big part is Dieter Ram's 10 Principles of Good Design, which says that a good design is:

 * **innovative**, doing something that no products before have done 
 * **makes a product useful**, for now I believe that means something similar to *makes a product understandable*
 * **aesthetic**, a sleek object makes our lives easier by being nicer to look at
 * **makes a product understandable**, meaning that its form is related to a function
 * **unobtrustive**, it doesn't create an undue burden
 * **honest**, this one was tricky but after some reading, it can mean that a product only tries to do one thing it was meant to do (i.e. making a spoon that could also be used as a hammer?)
 * **long-lasting**, it is made of durable material and it's designed to be useful for a very long time, clear of fads 
 * **thorough**, again had to do some reading but everything in the design was chosen because that design choice was better than all other choices. nothing is arbitrary.
 * **environmentally friendly**, somewhat self-explanatory, but a good design requires an efficient and resourceful manufacturing process. It does also not produce any unfavorable side-effects, emissions, or use up resources at a disproportional rate.
 * **as little design as possible**, as I said in the previous paragraph, the best designs are often the ones that are "invisible" and requires as little alteration from the designer. 
 
A good exercise is to grab an everyday product and ask these questions critically. Now I may be off on some of these but writing down what these mean to me helps me identify with what Dieter Ram is trying to teach. I may need an extra viewing of *Objectified* to be sure....

The next section differentiates the different types of design:

 * Graphic Design
 * Print Design (subset of Graphic Design)
 * Interaction Design
 * UI design (subset of Ix Design)
 * UX design (includes UI design, subset of Ix design)
 * Industrial design
 
The only vague part of these definitions is the difference between user interface design and user experience design. Taking into consideration what I read, I think that user interface design is the design of the visual interface and researching on which GUI is best for the problem that needs to be solves. I think UI design has more to do with HCI than UX design, as designing interfaces is a key part of any software that interacts with humans. With my current knowledge, the scope of UX expands to everyday products instead of being limited to GUI's, and researching the usability of operating systems, spoons, computer mouses, maintanence systems, etc. As I progress in this program my knowledge of UX will undoubtedly increase.

The rest of the article is a proposition value as to why design is so important to the startup culture. Design *is* the product, so while there are many processes that fuel a startups success such as back-end engineering, business, sales, marketing, and so-on-and-so-forth, the product is the face of the company. 



